
My client on this assignment was The Gaming Room, which has a game they call Draw It or Lose It. The game was originally created for Android phones, and the client wanted a way to extend the game so it could run across all platforms: Windows, Mac, Linux, as well as Android and iOS phones. They needed the software to allow for multiple simultaneous clients playing across multiple game instances. This software needed to be web-based to be available to all of these platforms.

I feel I did a particularly good job in this proposal with clearly evaluating all of the various platforms and clearly articulating the pros and cons of each. I was able to clearly describe the requirements and tradeoffs of both hosting and operating the software server-side, and of developing and hosting the client-side, and tying that back into how much it would cost to develop using the various platforms and tools available.

Writing up the entire design document in advance of coding really helped me to think through what the architecture and requirements of the software were, because I had to write it down before I could really get started on coding. When I started developing the gameauth application, I knew what the client-server structure of the app would look like, the API that I would have to develop to connect client-side apps and server-side, how I had to handle the memory and storage, and so on. It had all been planned out before I actually developed anything.

The recommendations section covers all of the necessary bases, but if I could add one more thing, I would elaborate upon this section and give some examples of the platforms and tools that were recommended. I might even add a few diagrams to this section to help guide the client and any developers that would be hired to implement the project in a particular direction based on what was recommended.

In this particular proposal, I focused on the main needs of the user: that the game must be playable across many different devices and must support many different players and clients. Because those were the main points, I let those drive all of my decisions in the design of the application, from recommending Linux over other platforms for its ease of handling clients in a web-based game, to creating a platform that allowed any kind of client (browser, for instance) to interface with the app. This is important because the most important criteria of any software design, regardless of how well it is built, is that the user's needs were actually met; it will always do more harm than good to have software designed that doesn't do what the user wants it to do.

In general, this was a good design document. I would have continued with the general strategy I employed: first, evaluate the requirements, then compare the different options available, then make a recommendation. I might continue to do the same thing in the future, but I would add more diagrams (UMLs or similar flowcharts) to help map out the general design in case I want to show other developers.
